# Ruby Hack 2019

Thursday April 4, 2019 - "Matz is nice, so we are nice"

Morning Talks

## Ruby3: What's Missing? - Yukihiro (Matz) Matsumoto

### *Ruby is Good*

Designing a programing language is like designing human thought.
It was designed so that it would be fun to write.
He built Ruby because it was fun. He wanted to try and design it to match the way programmers think.
The goal of ruby is to "make programmers happy"

### *Ruby is Bad*

- Performance
- Multi-core workloads
- Scaling to big teams

### *Ruby is "Good Enough"*

For Github, Aribnb, Instacart, Cookpad. And tons of other people. If its good enough for them, its good enough for your service to be written in Ruby. Ruby exists to get you to the point where you can succeed.
Think of twitter. Ruby helped Twitter come to be, and get to the point of being successful enough to have the need and the luxury to re-write things with more performant technologies.

### Ruby 3 is coming late next year

What will it do better?

- Memory Usage!! Lots of work is going into improving garbage collection. Helps solve the memory bottleneck.
- Also working on the CPU and I/O bottlenecks
- Ruby 2.6 runs 8x faster than Ruby 2.0
  - This isn't true for rails though. All of the "Just-in-time" compiling doesn't really help in a rails environment because there are just too many methods. The JIT performance is promising but not for rails yet.
- Web is now a multi-core aware environment. They're working on threading and optimising for I/O intensive tasks.
- How are they solving the big teams problem?
  - Static typing! They're going to add Type Definition Syntax files (.rbi files). Kind of like the typespecs in elixir.
  - There will be an automatic type profiler that can run for you and generate .rbi files
  - There are going to be more ways to catch type errors!
- They won't introduce braking changes if they can help it, unless you're doing bad things.
- Right now positional vs keyword args for functions kind of sucks. The way its currently implmented using a hash won't work with typechecking. That might be the only major breaking change with Ruby 3.0
- Adding an implicit block argument. Every method takes a block, and they're adding an operator to catch it so you can do things like this:

```rb
# The @1 stands in for the block.
[1,2,3].map(@1 * 2)
```

- Pattern matching is coming, but only for case statements (not function overloading)

Ruby does need to survive. It doesn't have to be the best or fastest language. It does need to survive though.

## A Better Way To Manage Secrets - Johnny T

The talk is focused on a tool from HashiCorp called _Vault_
Used by Nav, MX, Adobe, and other local companies
Its a service thats external to the rest of your application. It makes sense to have that process be a separate concern managed outside your application.
Basically the whole presentation is a rundown on the library.

## Modern JavaScript, without giving up on Rails - Jonathan Johnson

He works on a tool called packtracker.io (webpack bundle analysis)
SPAs aren't always a good fit for everyone
The reality is that in a lot of cases, you don't have a clean slate to start from where a SPA is a perfect fit, and you have a fully-functional API
Basically his presentation is about switching out the asset pipeline for webpack
Its nice because you don't just throw literally all the things on the window object.
Don't think of building "Single Page Applications" but "Multi Application Pages"
Rails still handles the routing, http stuff, etc. They consider their vue components (React components in our case) as "Apps"
A page renders many *"apps"*

---

Afternoon Talks

## Plan your next move like a chess game - David Mitchell

Talking about career moves, less technical things.
You career moves should act like a chess game, rather than a ladder.

### 70-20-10 rule

- 70% of your success comes from work experience
- 20% comes from your network
- 10% comes from education

Thinking about things with those rules + the mental model of thinking of your career as a chessboard informs the way he wants us to think about career development

### What can you do to get where you want to go

- Interview experts. Find people that have done what you want to do and ask them how they got there.
  - Ask them what things they did, what experience they've had. You can LinkedIn stalk them as well.
- Build the "Map"
  - Find 4-7 functional experiences and 3-4 management experiences that you want to have to contribute to your goals.
- Review and Plan
  - Focus on what you can do in the next 6 months, next 2-5 years, 5 years plus, etc
- From/To Statements
  - Where am I at now, where do I want to go? Do I want to move along the vertical axis OR the horizontal axis?
  - Pick some way that you want to grow by moving along one of the axes. Doing both at the same is VERY hard.
  - _"From a software engineer, I want to move to a Team Lead"_ or something like that.
- Ask for brutally honest feedback. Take that feedback and incorporate it into your plan. Don't be afraid to take that feedback.
- Matrix Ranking
  - You decide which criteria are most important to you. Basically weight factors like pay, benefits, commute, time off, social, etc, and weight them.
  - Then assign scores to each opportunity in each category, and pick the one that wins!
- Go prepared with specific questions to job interviews. That way when someone says "do you have any questions" you have answers for them.

## Taming Monoliths Without Microservices - Kelly Sutton

Dude works for Gusto
They let concepts of domain-driven design inform the way that they think about using active record relationships at a large scale.
You could try having clear domain distinctions rather than splitting the code base. Split things internally. (Kind of the way that phoenix lets you do it with separate schemas or umbrella applications).
You start having to unpack and let go of some of the assumptions that you make when you're using ActiveRecord.

### Some Recommendations when you try and do this

- Avoid circular dependencies
  - This is actually the way rails is by default. You have `:has_many` and `:belongs_to` relationships. Those two models then depend on each other perpetually.
  - You can ask yourself if you need both sides of a relationship. An employee can belong to a company without the company knowing that it has many employees
- Use value objects to traverse edges in your domains
  - Turn your active record objects into NOT ACTIVE RECORD OBJECTS

We write a lot of things like this:

```rb
# In an after-create for a company model
@company.save
SomeModule.send_an_email(@company)
SomeModule.do_something_else(@company)
```

This way, you're passing the ENTIRE company object (and its associations) around the app
You could do something like this instead:

```rb
SomeModule.send_an_email(@company.email_address)
```

- Avoid Callbacks (ðŸ™ŒðŸ» PREACH!!)
  - callbacks couple things tightly together.
  - Use service objects instead!
  - The service object can handle saving an active record logic, and can implement the `:after_create` logic itself.
- Move Slowly
  - The process of moving toward well-defined service objects move slowly. You need to be able to tell the business side of the story.

> Make the hard change easy (this may be hard), then make the easy change.\
\- Kent Beck

How do you know when its the right time to do this?

When your engineers get so frustrated that they stop being productive. Because they have to keep a whole world of context in their head to make what would otherwise be a small and inconsequential change.

## âš¡ï¸ Talks

### Ramblings, Rantings, and an Invitation - James Thompson

Spotting a bad fit.  Where you work might suck if

- If its more important to go fast than to go well
- Does process regularly get circumvented?
- Does shipping features trump providing customer value

His thoughts on microservices: "Don't"
You're usually trading method calls for network calls. Its a bad tradeoff.

### 5-Minute Introduction to Natural Language Processing - David L Bean

Its a REALLY hard problem. Everyone wants it though.
He's explaining the way that he handles doing natural language processing. Its mildly interesting!
Sarcasm is a hard problem, current methods don't work when order matters (John sued Mary -VS- Mary sued John)

### Amber & Crystal - Isaac Sloan

Check it out!

### Monby: Maybe for Ruby - Dave Christiansen

Nil is an oversight rather than an intent a LOT of the time.
Can use maybes as an alternative way of handling nil. KIND of like the optionals in swift.

### Getting Your First Gig - Kurt Something or Other

Get references!  Meet People!

## Cache is King: Get the Most Bang for Your Buck From Ruby - Molly Struve

She's an SRE at a place callled Kenna Security. She doesn't just do the things that SREs normally do. She's working on the code level too.
They realized that the _QUANTITY_ of calls to the data stores that were causing the majority of their scalability problems.

Serialization

- They started out using `ActiveModelSerializers`. It didn't scale. They were doing 200 million records a day, and ActiveModelSerializers fell over
- They started implementing bulk serialization using a cache class. Their seralizers would ask the cache rather than the db
- Try to use your application logic to enable yourself to process your data in bulk

Local ruby "hash" cashes are faster than even really fast things like Redis
Question though:
> If they're caching in memory, did they start to hit memory issues rather than throughput issues with Redis?

Know your Gems

- When you include a gem, make sure you have at least a general understanding of how it works and what it does
- They added Octopus to the project for sharding, and didn't realize that the shard info is stored on the Octopus proxy object, so they made millions of calls out out to redis to try and get that same piece of information.

Using Ruby to Avoid making datastore hits that you don't need (Database Guards)

- Basically, stop trusting ActiveRecord
- You can also use the `.none` scope to avoid making a DB call
- Never assume your gem isn't making a data store request when you think it might actually be
- Use code to prevent unnecessary work

You need to get comfortable with and good at reading the actual logs from your application/data store, etc and figuring out how to act on those
