# Ruby Hack 2019

Thursday April 4, 2019 - "Matz is nice, so we are nice"

Morning Talks

## Ruby3: What's Missing? - Yukihiro (Matz) Matsumoto

### *Ruby is Good*

Designing a programing language is like designing human thought.
It was designed so that it would be fun to write.
He built Ruby because it was fun. He wanted to try and design it to match the way programmers think.
The goal of ruby is to "make programmers happy"

### *Ruby is Bad*

- Performance
- Multi-core workloads
- Scaling to big teams

### *Ruby is "Good Enough"*

For Github, Aribnb, Instacart, Cookpad. And tons of other people. If its good enough for them, its good enough for your service to be written in Ruby. Ruby exists to get you to the point where you can succeed.
Think of twitter. Ruby helped Twitter come to be, and get to the point of being successful enough to have the need and the luxury to re-write things with more performant technologies.

### Ruby 3 is coming late next year. What will it do better?

- Memory Usage!! Lots of work is going into improving garbage collection. Helps solve the memory bottleneck.
- Also working on the CPU and I/O bottlenecks
- Ruby 2.6 runs 8x faster than Ruby 2.0
  - This isn't true for rails though. All of the "Just-in-time" compiling doesn't really help in a rails environment because there are just too many methods. The JIT performance is promising but not for rails yet.
- Web is now a multi-core aware environment. They're working on threading and optimising for I/O intensive tasks.
- How are they solving the big teams problem?
  - Static typing! They're going to add Type Definition Syntax files (.rbi files). Kind of like the typespecs in elixir.
  - There will be an automatic type profiler that can run for you and generate .rbi files
  - There are going to be more ways to catch type errors!
- They won't introduce braking changes if they can help it, unless you're doing bad things.
- Right now positional vs keyword args for functions kind of sucks. The way its currently implmented using a hash won't work with typechecking. That might be the only major breaking change with Ruby 3.0
- Adding an implicit block argument. Every method takes a block, and they're adding an operator to catch it so you can do things like this:

```rb
# The @1 stands in for the block.
[1,2,3].map(@1 * 2)
```

- Pattern matching is coming, but only for case statements (not function overloading)

Ruby does need to survive. It doesn't have to be the best or fastest language. It does need to survive though.

## A Better Way To Manage Secrets - Johnny T

The talk is focused on a tool from HashiCorp called _Vault_
Used by Nav, MX, Adobe, and other local companies
Its a service thats external to the rest of your application. It makes sense to have that process be a separate concern managed outside your application.
Basically the whole presentation is a rundown on the library.

## Modern JavaScript, without giving up on Rails - Jonathan Johnson

He works on a tool called packtracker.io (webpack bundle analysis)
SPAs aren't always a good fit for everyone
The reality is that in a lot of cases, you don't have a clean slate to start from where a SPA is a perfect fit, and you have a fully-functional API
Basically his presentation is about switching out the asset pipeline for webpack
Its nice because you don't just throw literally all the things on the window object.
Don't think of building "Single Page Applications" but "Multi Application Pages"
Rails still handles the routing, http stuff, etc. They consider their vue components (React components in our case) as "Apps"
A page renders many *"apps"*

---

Afternoon Talks

## Plan your next move like a chess game - David Mitchell

Talking about career moves, less technical things.
You career moves should act like a chess game, rather than a ladder.

### 70-20-10 rule

- 70% of your success comes from work experience
- 20% comes from your network
- 10% comes from education

Thinking about things with those rules + the mental model of thinking of your career as a chessboard informs the way he wants us to think about career development

### What can you do to get where you want to go?

- Interview experts. Find people that have done what you want to do and ask them how they got there.
  - Ask them what things they did, what experience they've had. You can LinkedIn stalk them as well.
- Build the "Map"
  - Find 4-7 functional experiences and 3-4 management experiences that you want to have to contribute to your goals.
- Review and Plan
  - Focus on what you can do in the next 6 months, next 2-5 years, 5 years plus, etc
- From/To Statements
  - Where am I at now, where do I want to go? Do I want to move along the vertical axis OR the horizontal axis?
  - Pick some way that you want to grow by moving along one of the axes. Doing both at the same is VERY hard.
  - _"From a software engineer, I want to move to a Team Lead"_ or something like that.
- Ask for brutally honest feedback. Take that feedback and incorporate it into your plan. Don't be afraid to take that feedback.
- Matrix Ranking
  - You decide which criteria are most important to you. Basically weight factors like pay, benefits, commute, time off, social, etc, and weight them.
  - Then assign scores to each opportunity in each category, and pick the one that wins!
- Go prepared with specific questions to job interviews. That way when someone says "do you have any questions" you have answers for them.

## Taming Monoliths Without Microservices - Kelly Sutton

## ⚡️ Talks

## Cache is King: Get the Most Bang for Your Buck From Ruby - Molly Struve
